Mystery show is brought to you by kind snacks kind snacks lunch to help you celebrate everyday acts of
kindness spot someone being kind and you can send that person a kind snack.
Wait how is that even possible in what you're asking yourself right now.
Well actually easier than you would think he's got how kind of you dot com slash
mystery to get
started one afternoon. My friend Miranda and I were
driving around Los Angeles. What were we doing that day
I was getting my shoes fixed and I was with
you like a good friend who's willing to do errands or way
to hang
out it was the kind of day where everything felt fun and a little
charged even shoe repair and then
we stopped at a red light parade and
how long do you remember that red light being.
I you know I want to say like maybe twelve to
fifteen
minutes in my experience about light like we're still there. That's how long it
was I guess it was a kind of thing where you realized it was long you commented on
it forgot about
it and then hours later were like oh my God you know what I just realized we're still
at that like right right. And here's the thing like when
you're stuck at a light you're kind of just looking for anything to read
and look
at we were just very willing to jump down any rabbit hole we could
such a mess. And there one was right in front of
us a mystery.
What did we
see we saw a license plate. That's
a lot of nine eleven.
Yes we did.
That's exactly what we
saw.
To
be technical we saw a license plate with the letter i followed by the
letters L.U.V. and then followed by the numbers nine and one
and one and I love nine
eleven we were looking at the cars all around us of the people and like Is anyone seeing this.
How can this
be right here in broad
daylight
the plate was attached to an old Buick wagon half Asian half a sort of orange you
can colors the cars don't come in anymore.
We couldn't stop talking about it we
would try and move on to a new topic of discussion but we just kept coming back to the plate. What
could it mean the most obvious explanation that the driver was a terrorist didn't
even make sense since the last thing a terrorist would
do is get a license plate. That said I'm a terrorist. We had
the distinct impression that the driver was trying to communicate something powerful to us.
I mean just think about the steps
involved in getting a band the plate that says I love nine
eleven standing in line the D.M.V. to get the wrong form standing in line at the D.M.V.
to get the right form standing in line at the
D.M.V. to turn in the form the person would have
had so many opportunities to reconsider and yet they powered
through determined to declare their love to a world that couldn't possibly
really we didn't know
if we'd ever understand that love but we felt the need to at least decipher
it
when the light finally turning green at a point so far into the future that everything that's
in fashion now return
to fashion again to the world seemed exactly the same we got into the left hand lane.
We are now directly alongside the
Buick The driver was an elderly woman in my memory. She was
wearing the kind of hat. You might wear to church. The idea of not finding out the
answer. Crazy. I wanted to get out of the car make the universal gesture
of roll down your window and tell me what your inscrutable vanity plate
means Instead we turned left and the woman and the
answer went
straight back then I think it was anything else I could do about
it but now I
do was the
one from gimlet I'm stylee kind. And this
is a mystery show was
this every week I solve a new mystery mysteries
that can't be solved online mysteries that can't be solved yourself why is
the
zone one to mention names when you
mean unless you're me because
this week on mystery show the mystery is
mine First off I
know you.
So
you've got your work cut out for you know got a lot of work on my gosh I don't know how you're going to find
her what I'm picturing is you're going to go back to about like she's going to still be there.
Well it was a very long life. So what's going to happen is I'm going to run the plates.
Out great. I'm investigating the
leads then I'm going to give you a report. I love. And I for my part. Well
just wait
for my first task was to head to a police station to ask a cop. If you could run a complete
strangers license plate and give me her personal contact info.
Once
inside the station. I met a police. GENTE wasn't allowed to talk to me on tape. But he was
permitted to shoot the breeze with me for a while he told me how much he
was looking forward to retiring three years from
now he planned on moving to the country so that his daughter to grow up riding horses
and he and his son could sit around all day playing guitar and
I asked him if he could run a license plate number.
He said he could have because a plate was right in front of him where he could see it or he had an
official reason to do
so at a feeling that didn't include because I just really want to
know
I wish to sergeant. Good luck going to feature life and left to pursue other
options
Starlee Hi How are you.
This is Dan. He's an investigative journalist I thought he might have some advice for
me about how to get a cop to run a plate. He said it wasn't a matter of asking the right
way it was a matter of asking the right cop he knew one who owed him a
favor but I don't want to get the
hopes up too high. OK because the last time the
car had a valid registration was from August two thousand and
ten to August two thousand and
eleven that matches up with my timeline of when I last saw
it but the problem is because it's not registered to check in the name on
it really. That's how that works.
And if you can see who was previously registered to that it could get that
information right now it's a bit of a dead
end did it show when the license plate was first got there any record of
that I don't see that here. No business
saying anything
about it well that's a business in this now
it is
a vendor eighty two thousand and eight the
previous
license and. As another number here read it but I want to bring that number.
Yeah well let's find out
OK You got the experience not going to see it at all previous
by daring told me he'd have to go through a cycle of non favor
related phone calls to a guy before he'd be able to hit him up about the second plate. I
understood and told him I'd wait for him to get in
touch
with him and
been
there something that might have already occurred to you that never once occurred to Miranda and me but
we're stuck at the light that day.
What if we were reading the license plate. I love a nine eleven
All
right
big big bang You
mean let's consider some alternate theory.
Perhaps your favorite Bible passage was singing praises to the Lord which while it's in
Zion clear among the people he's doing from nine
eleven
or maybe it was simply a matter of improper punctuation. We were inserting
a forward Flash nine eleven where there should have been a period. Ninety
one point one.
Corporate Control is not an issue with ninety one X. more local independent radio.
So it could be ninety one X. in San Diego. This is one of my
investigators there which as implied by the acts like all X. stations across
America it's like an all rock
station
and it is not because I
love Nine one one ninety one point one F.M. and ten Diego.
But I think my brother was the
ex station where I'm from in Tampa Bay is ninety seven X..
And my brother has this really lucky streak of winning all of their like water
competitions like we tallied it up at Thanksgiving last year and he's won
like something like seven thousand dollars worth of like gifts and trips and stuff from like the
caller number ninety seven really you know I think there is no in the like on their Facebook page
like so like he won a trip to New Orleans he won Lehman's concert tickets like backstage passes
all the time so I think my brother actually my brother is the kind of person who
would get.
I love this would be ninety seven I think it's ninety seven to one. Yeah I
love nine seven one and Tampa Bay. I'm going purely on got here
OK. Even so Eric still only gave it a twenty percent chance.
Ninety one X. was broadcast at a San Diego which he worried was too far away from
L.A. Dave contest.
Yeah I'm sure they do what I'm saying now if I were to pull back
I did ma'am.
And it's the old York City. So if I were you I get
an audience that
than you if you're not
one that was
a contest. It was a contest.
I don't know I feel you're gonna have to what you're going to have to pump that percentage up a little bit.
OK fine I will I don't think twenty percent is a lot for someone who doesn't live in San Diego.
Because that was like we would love
definitely
given to the difference in the quality of love L.-O. V.-E. versus
L.U.V.
at one point in my life I would have said no you mean like when you were like a teenager
L.U.V. and they had to call you know it all you see therefore it is L.-O. v right.
And then. But now you get older and I think there's like a more distinct separation between the two.
That's sad too isn't it like usually like to do stuff.
I didn't know is a nice to
just tell you the something wasn't so much weight attached to it like the weight of a
moving
vehicle would
seem more likely than a Saum more likely even than a radio station that was daily
affiliated to the radio station where Eric's brother kept winning contests was at the numbers nine one
one meant nine one
one everyone I knew seem to think so first I would tell
them about the plate pronouncing it as I love nine eleven and they'd be shocked.
Then I'd bring of the possibility of a being I love Nine one
one and they'd say oh yeah that's probably what it
is now in hindsight I
think it could be that works for
the either just the police or they work specifically for
nine one one
like or like an operator
or nine one one like saved her life or the life
of her child's bed so a lot
of
I didn't know when the woman had gotten the plate. I didn't know the Miranda and
I had seen it ten years after the event that forever made the plate very
easy to
misconstrue whatever it was that this woman loved
she had to love it enough to be OK with
that with a nine one one operator really feel that
way I started in one thousand nine
hundred seventy four while. Seventy four.
This is Carol. So you were like one of the first of what we know is nine one one
operator Detroit was one of the first cities that have a big city that had
it when I when one began the idea. Just one number that would service all your
emergency S. with such a novel concept that a typical call would go like this
a person would dial nine one one. The dispatcher would answer the caller would
say oh it
worked and then hang up eventually people figure out the system
and then they decided calling in for
everything there was one situation.
I just picked up the phone and this person said there was a German Shepherd Dog I mean a
car and he gave me the description of the car in the location and
I think that's like how do I say this without sounding like a
complete lunatic you
know but I didn't have much choice so I gave it out
and then like two or three minutes an officer comes on the air and he says.
Yeah you're right I'm behind this car and there's a
god sitting in the driver's seat and he had his paws up on the steering wheel and he
was aiming the car. What. You know so you
pulled it over and the guy had caught the dog how to steer and he was sitting
on the passenger seat working the pedals you know the break in the gas
and apparently the dog did pretty
good so I was very. OK I have a lot of questions.
If you teach your dog how to drive is that illegal.
Well we kind of joke around about who is going to get the ticket. But the guy got the ticket
they cited him for allowing in I'm a licensed operator.
Wait a minute to drive the V A Wait a minute if the dog I lived in would then be legal
probably this is probably not the lesson I'm still be learning from this but I want to teach my dog to drive me as soon
as I get off
the phone call. OK. Well don't do it in a busy road
that's all I have to say.
Carol tells me she would sometimes be the only dispatcher working and would have to figure out how to
juggle the different calls coming in the most urgent ones were
labeled hot calls. She remembers one night getting three hot call. All at
once there's been a traffic accident with injuries three guys in ski
masks were hanging around outside a communion store and a man was drowning his wife in their swimming
pool and
then in the middle of it is a lady called to report that there's a dead squirrel in your yard in
a halting this is really low on my priority list of the
moment
it's just your mind now ordered and prioritize things that way because of all the years spent
doing that naturally for emergencies.
I think so I think you look for ways to fix things more and to
be more self-sufficient than some people are always trying to turn to somebody else to fix their
problems having a job or somewhere people call you for help has taught you to be more self-sufficient
and ask for help less. Yeah it does that sound backwards. Oh yeah kind of because
I mean counterintuitive that I would I would think that lesson would be. Oh it's good to
ask for
help. Well it is good dad for help I guess I just heard so much of what happens to
people good and bad that I think it just helps you put into perspective what what
is really something that's important and urgent and works just life and you
just deal with it as it
comes there are some calls that linger for
ever and it snows a lot in Michigan if you didn't know and so it was wintertime
and it was snowing in this woman was driving to work and she lost control of
her car and hit a snowplow head on and was
killed she knew my age she you know had young children and
it's like you know that just took on a personal
call and it's just a call I've never forgotten. I got all this
information because I looked at the police report that came in after and saw that the
tail fin. I wish I hadn't got at that point I learned I probably didn't want to read most
of the police reports because I didn't want to know that much about what happened.
The
story I'm working on is about a license plate that I saw that said
I L U V And the numbers nine one one.
I just been trying to figure out what it is and so do you think it's possible to love Nine one one.
I do my guess would be someone who works for it really that would put that. Yeah.
Why my license plate was
ten nine and that was the police code for repeat your message
that when your license plate really. Yeah that was a personalized license plate. Well we thought
of was the police radio codes on people's license plates we generally knew
that they work for an agency.
So you see other license plate that I have little they have police codes radio codes or not only one reference
is in them.
Yeah it's not
uncommon so you love Nine one one.
Yes I would say I do. I mean you know you you really and truly can
help people you know most days you go to work and
it's just a job. I'll be ro honest it is just a job but you
know every once in a while you get that call where you get the police and the fire
there in time to help save somebody. It's
exciting it's definitely not pretty firmly over to the Not that it's a nine one
one license plate
argument that would be my that's what I would think if I saw. Yes I think they're
proud of
it I love Nine one one. Had just edged ahead as the
most convincing theory one I felt compelled to believe unless I found the
Buick's driver and she told me
otherwise I was a reservation for you. Here's Derren again.
Coach tell you something really funny that happened on the way to getting this. So
I sent the new license but the other lesson spoke to my
friend and while I'm waiting for him to get back to me because it was another computer that while
waiting for him to get back to me I'm sitting in. Office and also I hear. A crack outside and I
look at my
window and some guy has sideswiped my car and not the side view mirror
all really. Yeah he takes off
and I go chasing them down the block like a lunatic much
lepers and he gets away. He burst into
light but the guy has a vanity plate. So my friend comes back to me with the
answer to your plate and then I had a right to back and say actually if you have time to run one
or it turns out the guy lives on the block.
I just provide this morning and it was there in the car and the car was there so I think a
back to the back I would have to run I will swear I didn't want to show up like looking like an adult and
I take a shower and I go back.
It's his vanity plate you'd understand then I love now and then yeah
yeah definitely it's like I love sites like
being exactly what it was I wrecked
cars in the course of a like a couple weeks of running a bunch of
ice but that's evolved out of one for my entire life and I feel like a part of life.
So you want to know about your license but yeah
OK so I got a name really. Yeah. Wow I'll tell you the
name and you can believe whatever you need to
believe the name
is now the bomber is that there's an address
here but the bummer is is that it's a pill box.
Oh this person this one down. OK Things person is the opposite of
the person who sidelined Not only that the person I was looking for and
thinking to clear his name really
easily just walk down the block walk on the block.
OK but we have appeal box I can send a letter and we have a name.
The only thing now is that there's a lot of pressure on you to write a letter that they get responses
and I could tell how much is New Zealand and I would say Just don't over think it.
OK I always overthink it and it takes me as you know my last letter I wrote
a letter. Over and over again for like two
months and then the other just like replied Yeah what's
called so don't overthink it. So I would think
that
I write a letter and mail it to the people Box address feeling like I was right back where
I started once again
waiting
to know what that felt
like during this short
break
support
for Mr A show comes from Squarespace a quick and easy way to build your own website
blog on line
store in fact you'll be able to set up your site so fast you can have so much free time on your
hands that frankly I'm a little worried. So here's suggestion for about how to spend that time.
Take your dog for a
walk pass that one coffee shop with that old man is always sitting outside ready to give your dog a
treat his except every time the old man actually gives your dog a treat
you like he doesn't want it keeps pretending into you're just out of sight of the old
man and then he devours
it also accept no matter how many times you try and explain to the old man that your dog really does
like
to treat the old man is never going to totally understand what you mean but he's not nearly as anguished by the
whole exchanges you are put a square space dot com and start a free trial today with Intuitive an
easy to use tools cyclic professionally designed. Regardless of skill level. No coding required.
And sure to use offer Code mystery to get ten percent off your first
purchase Squarespace build a beautiful support for mystery
show also comes from kind snacks kind snacks are made from Ingrid and you
can see and pronounce. Which brings us to this week's installment.
List whole grain clusters.
You know it goes great with your family
like yeah there were five of us so we would
all like a half a glass of milk and then you
try to be the first one to reach the
top for a quick
demonstration
to
want to
walk
and root from the sidelines with with tuned for next week's
clusters
installment of the ingredient list. And do the kind thing for your world.
I thought the hard part of solving what I love nine eleven meant would be finding out the driver's identity.
Once I had that I assume that everything that followed would be as easy as teaching a dog to
drive a car but incredibly the driver. Let's call her Margaret was
becoming more of a mystery to me
with every attempt. I made to reach out to her. I waited weeks for a response
the letter I sent but never heard back. I searched public records for every possible
combination of her name and then called her a number that came up. No one ever answered
each number had some version of anonymous outgoing message.
This was the woman who put such a personal message on her license plate but he couldn't leave a simple.
Hi I'm not in right now on her voicemail. I
would have just knocked on her front door but I couldn't find another address for her the on the P.O.
box but then finally another one of my investigators Melinda made a discovery.
I just did a cross reference. That excited me where I figured
out married name I
think thirteen under this new name. Linda had then found a house headdress that had the same phone
number listed as a P.O. box. We now knew where Margaret lived
or at least had one slipped.
I did a search to see if she was still getting utilities build there.
So did
what even if Margaret wasn't living at this address anymore.
It was still the best lead I
had We're getting close this is our exit just six minutes and
well being as how is my first stake out
and I wanted to do it right. Stale coffee
check read Bines check stakeout
partner check at this block again honey looks like a look see here. OK Let's blow this is
my friend
Matt his main stakeout partner
qualifications are that his schedule is flexible and that he's prone to grumbling. I think we should
call and complain because that is was ridiculous.
Imagine rush hour. Forget
it it be there for an hour.
It's after eight when Matt and I arrive in Margaret neighborhood as well as return to her
street it dawns on me that OK maybe they hadn't taken everything into
account like that at one time it's
dark to see anything. I can't even see any numbers.
After much squinting and significantly
more grumbling to figure out which house is hers.
Look at this. Wow this just got really
real it's an anonymous voicemail message where a house is it would look like Margaret.
There's like no
lights no car in the driveway.
There was also no sign of the
concrete My plan had been to use the car as an entry point into a
conversation with
Margaret without the car in sight though I didn't know what the next step
was. And Matt and I couldn't stake out the house since all the good stakeout spots had been
taken if there was a spot rent under. To sit there with the onesie.
But we were on easy street. We were on hard
street at the intersection of frustrating and
questionable but wait that was that a glint of metal I
thought yeah there's a car back that showed that I'm going to make her
like dollars. I don't know why we were whispering the windows were closed. All right and with us
watching
what Matt and I pull into the driveway as though we're making a U.
turn and there's a low gate and I had light shines through.
Eliminating the back of the
driveway and then from behind the house with just his nose poking out
and we see all this as he said
it's that it's
hard it's harsh. It's because it's definitely the car cat we found it.
Now you're going to point is no. Wow this is a great
success to pull back into the
street the cars swallowed up by the darkness. Once
more
having
confirm
that
I
had the right house. I set out the next day on my own. I Pod about side
Margaret's of course now that I was an honest takeout. There's plenty of choice takeout spots
available typical I open the gate and walk up to
the front door. I take a deep breath and
knock no answer and knock
again no
answer and knock
again a slight shifting of the curtains followed by a
boy who is
it. Here is a detail. I had thought through beforehand
Starlee I
say you have
a license plate that says I love. I Pods again
the numbers nine and one and one zero.
That's my manager Margaret's car says the voice. I'm Sheila.
Margaret lives in the house and back. I think she's home now she's going not going to door. I
think she will step away from the door relieved by how smoothly this is all
going wait a minute that Sheila. When did you see the
car. Here we go I thought I would have to explain the whole story. The
running of the plates the calling in a favor how it was the dog's owner and not the
dog itself who controlled the brakes and gas while driving a few years ago.
Oh that makes sense says
Sheila the car isn't been driven since about then and with that the curtain
fell back into place. I had left my recording equipment in the
car and also my phone in order to feel out the
situation when I went to open the gate to go get it. Sheila called out like a video game wizard
and said I was going the wrong way. So I let go of the gate
latch and walked down the driveway to Margaret's house in the back between
me and her front door was the car its colors were a little more
faded than I remembered but otherwise it was the
same. There's a little plush stuffed animal dog perched on the back seat. I
circled around until I was standing behind the trunk and looked at the license plate.
It was the same two. I love nine
eleven I went
out Margaret steps so that I was standing in front of her door.
There are charges in the
windows a sculpture of a little boy riding a scooter and other one of a woman
dancing windchimes twisted in the breeze. There was no doorbell. So I knocked on
the metal gate. No answer. I knocked
again no answer next door the neighbor's dog barred
from the main house. I heard Sheila call out.
She's not in there thought for sure she was you'll have to come back another day
then
on my next visit. I wanted to bring Margaret a gift proof of my family intentions.
So I pulled over at the first flower shop I
saw inside the store was nearly empty.
Except for half a dozen orchids. I chose a purple one. The man who worked
there seemed so surprised that I was actually buying something that he pulled out all the stops. He
offered to transfer it to a nicer
bass. He added moss and tied a big ribbon around it all the while he talked to me.
About why he was from Mexico
City and how much he loved to travel. He said though that he hadn't yet been to
the place he most wanted to go the nine one one memorial in New York City.
He felt that he really needed to pay tribute to it in
person
I pulled to Margaret
south open the gate walk down the driveway
when chimes tchotchke
was no obvious place to knock I rap on the metal
gate holding the orchid with my other
arm no response. I knocked
again no response next door the neighbor's dog is
losing his mind.
I
put the flowers down on the stoop that I knocked again louder
longer from inside a voice.
It's so faint I press my air against the door in order to hear it.
Who
is it.
It's Darley who
hopefully here goes nothing Years ago I saw your license plate and I made
such an impression on me that I've been wondering about it ever
since
sweetheart says the voice my secretary gave me your letter.
I've been meaning to call you. I like that she calls me sweetheart.
Her voice is so
soft I can't talk right now though sweetheart.
I just got out of the bath. I'm wearing only a towel who
was this nice sounding woman with a secretary who gave her letters. What is it that
she
loved sweetheart after this I have a doctor's appointment. Can
you come back another day. What about later
tonight I ask and busy sweetheart tomorrow. Sweetheart.
I have church. I tell her I brought flowers and I'll just leave them on
our
stoop Thank you sweetheart. Thank you. If feels like that instead of
two doors separating us. There's a
hundred it feels like even if those two doors were to open right now she would still be just
a
voice a voice somehow wrapped in a
towel
to get back to my car and start driving. I mean said to days that I keep missing
the streets I'm supposed to turn
on and then my phone rings.
It's a Los Angeles area code. I pull over to a parking lot and pick up.
Hello sweetheart. It's Margaret I
only have a few minutes but I wanted to tell you the story behind my plate
also thank you for the flowers. They're beautiful.
Here's
where I tell you that my.
About
it.
She
promised
a
copy
so
that
we could do a proper interview when
she did call. She said she'd been feeling under the weather and had to reschedule.
And then the next time she said she'd just been so busy trying to get her house ready to sell.
We never get to the
interview
I updated Miranda. On what I had
learned is that she's solved get the case assault. Do you think the case is
all deeply profoundly like like we were right there
was something up with that place. You
know more and more I believe like there is no accuracy
in communication there are only mistakes. It is so hard to
communicate like love you know
or sadness combined with love like that's a very complex thing
and that's what brings us grace like it's not accuracy
and she trusted that when she made the plate that somehow the most
confusing contrary message in the world
would speak to people's hearts because her intentions behind it you know were so clear
and so strong it was effective. I mean all the things that made
our heart be turned out to be relevant and I feel
like we got her
message
to
listen to
this.
Mystery
show
is produced by Alex Bloomberg Melinda shops and Eric Manal and
me producing help for this episode. From the advent Horowitz
is contributing editor engineering helped. Josh
Rogosin Thanks also to Matt Lieber regional score for this episode
by white the closing song by Amy the great opening song
by spark Arthur Jones made our logo with the toaster the now makes so much more
sense to you.
Thank you Jonathan Goldstein Jorge
just Sloane Crosley Laura Kraft and Johnson you all helped more than
you
realize apparently my crew last week was too easy
since tons of you guessed stop in the name of love.
William Hudson with the first one to send me his crack
at. Good job William take the rest of the weekend off and
I will obviously need to start making my clues harder starting possibly with this week's clue.
Let's just see how it goes it could have been a joke
or
it.